All right here's example 15 called the unknown resistance in the circuit over here the reading of this
e-meter.
They say it's going to be the same whether or not you keep the switches open or whether it's closed.
That's kind of a key thing right this current in that upper brain is going to be the same whether both
of them are open or both of them are close.
The question is how do you find this unknown resistance.
All right.
So first I'm going to do the case when both of them are open.
Let's have a look at what happens when it's open.
So let's look at where the current can go.
So the current is probably going to flow down here up here.
Now if it's open there's not going to be any current here because this here basically is infinite resistance.
So the current must go up here it must go through this ammeter current must go over here now any current
is going to flow down here.
No because look at it it's open that's infinite resistance.
So the current basically just going to go around this loop.
So actually when both of them are open this is basically nothing more than a single loop circuit.
So that means that we can actually find what that current is it has to be the same current flowing through
the battery.
So in this case we're going to do now since it's a single loop I can use an equivalent resistor and
equivalent resistance is simply you simply add them up.
They're all in series with each other 300 plus 100 plus 50 gives me 450 ohms.
All right the battery is 1.5 volts.
So automatically I can calculate what that current is and I'm going to call the current up here let's
call it.
I won and right now it's the same everywhere.
However in the next problem when both switches are open it's not necessarily going to be the same.
So I'm going to call the current I want up here.
So in this case I'm allowed to find one.
It's simply the voltage of the battery divided by my equivalent resistance.
This is 1.5 over 450.
This is the same thing as on over 300.
Three point three three multiply times ten of them minus three so very small current the resistance
is pretty big.
All right.
That's why it's open.
Now let's do the case when it's closed.
So let me clean up this diagram now.
Actually one is close the problem tells us that the current one up here is going to be the same because
the reading in the ammeter is the same.
So you have to keep that in mind.
So now all we're going to have is we're going to have this current one which we just solved for this
value right here and that's going to be the same whether or not the switches are open or closed so let's
close them up and let me solve the problem now when it's closed.
Now you might not know exactly how to solve this right now but we're asked at the end to find the unknown
resistance so we're really going to have to introduce this unknown resistance.
So let me find some points over here maybe Let's define this as a junction I can call this point.
Hey this is another junction over here that's called Point B.
What else do we know about it.
While we know that this 100 ohm resistor is actually in parallel with this one.
So you know that the voltage across has to be the same right.
The voltage across this resistance must be the same as the voltage across this one.
Well I think we can calculate the voltage across this 100 ohm resistor because we know the current because
the current is the same for both cases.
So let's maybe start with that.
So the voltage across the 100 ohm resistor is what well the value of the resistance is 100 multiplied
by the current flowing through it.
In this case is the current one.
So we get 100 multiplied by 1 over 300 or three point three three times ten to the minus three.
We're left with one over 3 volts so that there is the voltage between this point and that point.
So actually we know the voltage across this unknown resistance.
So let's define the current in a branch.
Now the current that branch let's just call it I of our.
So we know automatically know now that the voltage across must be equal to this unknown resistance multiplied
by whatever current is flowing through that resistance.
So this is an important equation on the box that up when I have to come back to it.
Now the reason you can't just solve this right now is because you don't know what the value of the resistance
is.
But you also don't know what the current flowing through here is.
All we know is the currents in this upper branch.
However if we somehow knew what is the current in this main branch then maybe we can calculate what
I Ariz.
So let's go see how can we calculate the current in the main branch.
Well maybe we can do a loop.
Right we know the voltage across a and b maybe we can just do apply a loop rule.
Let's go ahead and do that.
The first thing we're going to notice is what happens over here when the switch is closed.
Member you're going to have some current that's going to flow into another junction over here and the
current now splits up.
However you know that the voltage from let's call this point C Let's call this point D.
The difference in voltage between points C and point D has to be equal to zero.
All right if I go straight down from this point to that point there is no resistance here in this wire
which automatically tells me that the current flowing out here through this 50 ohm resistor must be
equal to zero because the only way you can have that if there's no voltage drop across here there's
no voltage drop when I go across here and the only way I can have that is if the current is zero.
So again all the current now is simply going to go through the battery.
It's going to go up here some of it's going to go through the 100 ohm resistor.
Some of that's going to go through the unknown resistance and then it's going to go down this path from
C to D.
All right so we can actually do a loop so let's go ahead and apply a loop rule.
I'm going to start at point D and I'm going to go I have to introduce here.
I'm going to go just around this big upper loop here so I'm going to go from D to A to B C and then
come back.
So first thing you get now is a voltage gain 1.5 volt an across the battery.
Then I get a voltage drop the voltage drop is going to be 300 multiplied by the current in this branch.
What are we going to call this current Let's just call it the current I in this case.
All right.
Now I've decided to go up here.
Well I already know the voltage drop going from A to B.
I just calculated that it's one third So minus zero point three three three.
That's it.
Now I go to point C and I go back to point D What am I left with.
I go down and that's equal to zero.
Well this is a useful equation because look at the only unknown in this equation is that letter II is
the current and this other branch.
Let's go ahead and find that.
So the current I then is simply going to be 1.5 minus
all of this is over 300.
So here's the value of the current.
I substituted numbers in the calculator and here's what I got 10 of them minus three amps.
So let's have a look now at our junction.
So we have a current I going in and how much current is going out while his current one which is going
through the top branch and there's some of that current Now that's going through this unknown resistance.
But look what I know in this equation I just calculated what this guy is.
I know from the first part that the current through this other branch is the same whether it's open
or close.
I know that value.
So now I'm able to solve for what the current through that unknown resistances.
Let's go ahead and write that out.
The current through the unknown resistance is simply that current flowing through the battery minus
the current one.
All right you substitute the numbers in the calculator you're eventually going to find that the current
through that unknown resistance is going to be five point five seven.
It's a very small 10 to the minus 4 amps.
So now we have everything we need here are two equations here.
We have a voltage drop across points A and B we know the current flowing through this unknown resistance.
We can now solve for the unknown resistance.
Let's go and maybe do that down here.
So here we have the resistance R is one third.
That's the unknown voltage and one over the current flowing through that resistance.
Substitute the numbers in your calculator.
Now you should get five hundred ninety eight point four homes.
That's our final answer.
So that's our unknown resistance.
And this is kind of how you set up a problem like this.
So again there's no kind of fixed method here you have to introduce the variable r at some point whether
you started with the switch is closed or open.
You'll eventually have to use both cases in order to kind of end up solving this problem.
All right so review that problem.
It's kind of a good one it's kind of a different style of problem where in this case you have to find
the resistance knowing what the currents are.
So.